controller.txt
Created Thu Jun  1 16:16:25 AKDT 2017
Copyright (C) 2017 by Raymond E. Marcil <marcilr@gmail.com>


Storage Controllers


LSI is the best game in town for add-on storage controllers.  Avoid their MegaRAID solutions
and stick with their HBAs. You'll see three generations of HBAs commonly available today.
The oldest (and slowest) are the SAS 2008 based I/O controllers such as the 9211 or the very
popular IBM M1015.  The next generation of these controllers was based on the 2308 which
added PCI 3.0 support and increased CPU horsepower on the controller itself.  An example here
is the 9207.  Both the 2008 and 2308 based solutions are 6Gbps SAS parts.  The newest
generation of controllers are 12Gbps parts such as the 9300.  The FreeNAS driver for the
6 Gbps parts is based on version 16 of the stock LSI driver with many enhancements that LSI
never incorporated into their driver.  In addition, many of the changes after version 16
were specifically targeted at the Integrated RAID functionality that can be flashed onto
these cards.  As a result, "upgrading" the driver manually to the newer versions found on
the LSI website can actually result in downgrading its reliability or performance.  I highly
recommend running version 16 firmware on these cards. It's the configuration tested by LSI,
and it's the configuration tested by the FreeNAS developers.  Running newer firmware should
work, however running older firmware is not recommended or supported as there are known flaws
that can occur by running the FreeNAS driver against a controller with an older firmware.
FreeNAS will warn you if the firmware on an HBA is incompatible with the driver.  Heed this
warning or data loss can occur.  The newer 12Gbps parts use version 5 of the LSI driver.
Cards using this driver should use version 5 of the firmware.
--www.freenas.org/blog/a-complete-guide-to-freenas-hardware-design-part-ii-hardware-specifics/



Links
=====
A Complete Guide to FreeNAS Hardware Design, Part II: Hardware Specifics
Feb 5, 2015 | FreeNAS | 17 comments
http://www.freenas.org/blog/a-complete-guide-to-freenas-hardware-design-part-ii-hardware-specifics/
